docs/DOC.md, before:

# Documentation

* [Get Started](#get-started)
* [Advanced Configuration](#advanced-configuration)
* [Configuring Rules Profile](#rule-profile)
* [FAQ](#faq)


## <a name="get-started"></a>Get Started

### Use in IDE

SonarJS is integrated inside of [SonarLint](https://www.sonarlint.org/) IDE extension. It is available for [WebStorm/IntelliJ](https://www.sonarlint.org/intellij/index.html), [Visual Studio](https://www.sonarlint.org/visualstudio/index.html), [VS Code](https://www.sonarlint.org/vscode/index.html), [Atom](https://www.sonarlint.org/atom/index.html) and [Eclipse](https://www.sonarlint.org/eclipse/index.html).

### Use as a Command Line Tool or as a Library
The [SonarJS](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sonarjs) npm package can be used as a command line tool and as a JavaScript/TypeScript library.

### Use online on sonarcloud.io :cloud:
SonarJS is integrated inside of [sonarcloud.io](https://about.sonarcloud.io/), an online service for continuous code quality. To set up analysis of your project, follow instructions on [this page](https://about.sonarcloud.io/get-started/). 

### Use in SonarQube

[SonarQube](https://www.sonarqube.org/) is an open-source platform for continuous inspection of code quality. 
Assuming you have SonarQube [installed and running](https://docs.sonarqube.org/display/SONAR/Setup+and+Upgrade), choose the scanner and configure your project accordingly.

* [*SonarQube Scanner*](https://docs.sonarqube.org/display/SCAN/Analyzing+with+SonarQube+Scanner) is a basic scanner using the configuration file `sonar-project.properties` in the project root directory to perform analysis.

Example of `sonar-project.properties`
```properties
sonar.projectKey=my:project
sonar.projectName=My project
sonar.projectVersion=1.0
sonar.sources=src
```
There are many more properties that can be provided, see [general properties](https://docs.sonarqube.org/display/SONAR/Analysis+Parameters) and [javascript-specific properties](#advanced-configuration). Once this file is created and scanner is installed, run the following command from the project base directory to launch the analysis
```
sonar-scanner
```

* [*SonarQube Scanner for JavaScript*](https://github.com/bellingard/sonar-scanner-npm) relies on `package.json` file to set up all the analysis properties, such as project name, version etc. You can find an example of project using this scanner [here](https://github.com/SonarSource/SonarTS-example/tree/master/example1) (it's a TypeScript project, but there is no difference in use).

>We recommend to set the version of the project manually through script file to not depend on the one from `package.json` ([like this](https://github.com/SonarSource/SonarTS-example/blob/master/example1/analyse.js#L8)). That way you will be able to profit from a correct [leak period](https://docs.sonarqube.org/display/SONAR/Fixing+the+Water+Leak) and focus on quality issues introduced since last release.

## <a name="advanced-configuration"></a>Advanced Configuration

### Globals
Property | Example | Description
---------|---------|------------
`sonar.javascript.jQueryObjectAliases` |	$, jQuery, jQ	| Comma-separated list of names used to address jQuery object. Default value is "$, jQuery". NOTE These names are used only to detect jQuery usages, they are not used to build the list of globals.
`sonar.javascript.environments` | browser, jquery, amd | Comma-separated list of environments names. The analyzer automatically adds global variables based on that list. 
`sonar.javascript.globals` | Backbone, IS_DEBUG	| Comma-separated list of global variables. Default value is "angular,goog,google,OpenLayers,d3,dojo,dojox,dijit,Backbone,moment,casper".

Available environment names for `sonar.javascript.environments`: amd, applescript, atomtest, browser, commonjs, couch, embertest, flow, greasemonkey, jasmine, jest, jquery, meteor, mocha, mongo, nashorn, node, phantomjs, prototypejs, protractor, qunit, rhino, serviceworker, shared-node-browser, shelljs, webextensions, worker, wsh, yui. By default all environments are included.
### <a name="coverage"></a>Coverage
SonarJS does not generate its own test coverage report, but re-uses the one generated by LCOV. 
Prior to the analysis, execute your unit tests and generate the LCOV report(s).
Import the report(s) while running the analysis by providing the paths of the LCOV report through the following properties. The paths may be absolute or relative to the project base directory.

Property | Description
---------|------------
`sonar.javascript.lcov.reportPaths` | comma-separated list of paths to LCOV coverage report files

### Exclusion of dependencies

Starting from version 3.3, by default SonarJS ignores any files located inside folders called `node_modules` and `bower_components`. This can be changed by setting the following property.

Property | Description
---------|------------
`sonar.javascript.exclusions` | comma-separated list of path patterns to exclude from analysis. Default value is `**/node_modules/**,**/bower_components/**`.

## <a name="rule-profile"></a>Configuring Rules Profile

SonarJS provides 2 rule profiles out of the box: `Sonar way` (default) and `Sonar way Recommended`.

#### `Sonar way` Profile
`Sonar way` profile is activated by default. It defines a trimmed list of high-value/low-noise rules useful in almost any JS development context. You can check out the list of rules belonging to `Sonar way` on [SonarCloud](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/default/rules#qprofile=js-sonar-way-56838|activation=true).

#### `Sonar way Recommended` Profile
`Sonar way Recommended` contains all rules from `Sonar way` (bugs and pitfall detection), plus more rules that mandate high code readability and long-term project evolution. You can check out the list of rules belonging to `Sonar way Recommended` on [SonarCloud](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/default/rules#qprofile=js-sonar-way-recommended-64843|activation=true).

#### Above Predefined Rule Profiles
By using SonarQube/SonarCloud UI you can create your own rule profiles and activate even more rules which are valuable in your development context. We recommend you to look at the following rules, which are highly valuable but whose activation depends on your environment, coding principles or requires some configuration.
* "Non-existent properties should not be read" [S3759](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/default/rules#rule_key=javascript%3AS3759) (should be activated if you don't use monkey patching)
* "Non-existent variables should not be referenced" [S3827](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/default/rules#rule_key=javascript%3AS3827) (requires configuration)
* "Objects should not be created to be dropped immediately without being used" [ConstructorFunctionsForSideEffects](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/default/rules#rule_key=javascript%3AConstructorFunctionsForSideEffects) (activate, if you agree that constructors should not have side effects)
* "Variables should be declared with "let" or "const"" [S3504](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/default/rules#rule_key=javascript%3AS3504). Activate, if you use ES2015. Find more rules with tag "es2015".
* "Variables should be defined in the blocks where they are used" [S2392](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/default/rules#rule_key=javascript%3AS2392) (forces you to declare variables in the most narrow scope)
* "Variables should not be shadowed" [VariableShadowing](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/default/rules#rule_key=javascript%3AVariableShadowing) (forces you to not shadow variables declared in outer scope)

## <a name="faq"></a>FAQ

Have a question and can't find it here, [create an issue](https://github.com/SonarSource/SonarJS/issues/new)!

#### Q: How to import results of tests execution into SonarQube/SonarCloud?
A: Import of unit tests is not provided by SonarJS, and it's provided by SonarQube/SonarCloud itself (since v6.2). Here is [documentation](https://docs.sonarqube.org/display/SONAR/Generic+Test+Data) about it.

#### Q: How to disable coverage in my SonarQube/SonarCloud?
A: You may disable coverage metrics for some source files by setting [`sonar.coverage.exclusions`](https://docs.sonarqube.org/display/SONAR/Narrowing+the+Focus#NarrowingtheFocus-IgnoreCodeCoverage).

#### Q: How to write custom rules?
A: Here is some [documentation](/docs/CUSTOM_RULES.md) on how to write custom rules.

Commit message:

Add suffixes property to docs

docs/DOC.md, after:

# Documentation

* [Get Started](#get-started)
* [Advanced Configuration](#advanced-configuration)
* [Configuring Rules Profile](#rule-profile)
* [FAQ](#faq)


## <a name="get-started"></a>Get Started

### Use in IDE

SonarJS is integrated inside of [SonarLint](https://www.sonarlint.org/) IDE extension. It is available for [WebStorm/IntelliJ](https://www.sonarlint.org/intellij/index.html), [Visual Studio](https://www.sonarlint.org/visualstudio/index.html), [VS Code](https://www.sonarlint.org/vscode/index.html), [Atom](https://www.sonarlint.org/atom/index.html) and [Eclipse](https://www.sonarlint.org/eclipse/index.html).

### Use as a Command Line Tool or as a Library
The [SonarJS](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sonarjs) npm package can be used as a command line tool and as a JavaScript/TypeScript library.

### Use online on sonarcloud.io :cloud:
SonarJS is integrated inside of [sonarcloud.io](https://about.sonarcloud.io/), an online service for continuous code quality. To set up analysis of your project, follow instructions on [this page](https://about.sonarcloud.io/get-started/). 

### Use in SonarQube

[SonarQube](https://www.sonarqube.org/) is an open-source platform for continuous inspection of code quality. 
Assuming you have SonarQube [installed and running](https://docs.sonarqube.org/display/SONAR/Setup+and+Upgrade), choose the scanner and configure your project accordingly.

* [*SonarQube Scanner*](https://docs.sonarqube.org/display/SCAN/Analyzing+with+SonarQube+Scanner) is a basic scanner using the configuration file `sonar-project.properties` in the project root directory to perform analysis.

Example of `sonar-project.properties`
```properties
sonar.projectKey=my:project
sonar.projectName=My project
sonar.projectVersion=1.0
sonar.sources=src
```
There are many more properties that can be provided, see [general properties](https://docs.sonarqube.org/display/SONAR/Analysis+Parameters) and [javascript-specific properties](#advanced-configuration). Once this file is created and scanner is installed, run the following command from the project base directory to launch the analysis
```
sonar-scanner
```

* [*SonarQube Scanner for JavaScript*](https://github.com/bellingard/sonar-scanner-npm) relies on `package.json` file to set up all the analysis properties, such as project name, version etc. You can find an example of project using this scanner [here](https://github.com/SonarSource/SonarTS-example/tree/master/example1) (it's a TypeScript project, but there is no difference in use).

>We recommend to set the version of the project manually through script file to not depend on the one from `package.json` ([like this](https://github.com/SonarSource/SonarTS-example/blob/master/example1/analyse.js#L8)). That way you will be able to profit from a correct [leak period](https://docs.sonarqube.org/display/SONAR/Fixing+the+Water+Leak) and focus on quality issues introduced since last release.

## <a name="advanced-configuration"></a>Advanced Configuration

### File Extensions
Property | Example | Description
---------|---------|------------
`sonar.javascript.file.suffixes` |	.jsx	| Comma-separated list of suffixes for files to analyze. Default value is ".js,.jsx,.vue".

### Globals
Property | Example | Description
---------|---------|------------
`sonar.javascript.jQueryObjectAliases` |	$, jQuery, jQ	| Comma-separated list of names used to address jQuery object. Default value is "$, jQuery". NOTE These names are used only to detect jQuery usages, they are not used to build the list of globals.
`sonar.javascript.environments` | browser, jquery, amd | Comma-separated list of environments names. The analyzer automatically adds global variables based on that list. 
`sonar.javascript.globals` | Backbone, IS_DEBUG	| Comma-separated list of global variables. Default value is "angular,goog,google,OpenLayers,d3,dojo,dojox,dijit,Backbone,moment,casper".

Available environment names for `sonar.javascript.environments`: amd, applescript, atomtest, browser, commonjs, couch, embertest, flow, greasemonkey, jasmine, jest, jquery, meteor, mocha, mongo, nashorn, node, phantomjs, prototypejs, protractor, qunit, rhino, serviceworker, shared-node-browser, shelljs, webextensions, worker, wsh, yui. By default all environments are included.
### <a name="coverage"></a>Coverage
SonarJS does not generate its own test coverage report, but re-uses the one generated by LCOV. 
Prior to the analysis, execute your unit tests and generate the LCOV report(s).
Import the report(s) while running the analysis by providing the paths of the LCOV report through the following properties. The paths may be absolute or relative to the project base directory.

Property | Description
---------|------------
`sonar.javascript.lcov.reportPaths` | comma-separated list of paths to LCOV coverage report files

### Exclusion of dependencies

Starting from version 3.3, by default SonarJS ignores any files located inside folders called `node_modules` and `bower_components`. This can be changed by setting the following property.

Property | Description
---------|------------
`sonar.javascript.exclusions` | comma-separated list of path patterns to exclude from analysis. Default value is `**/node_modules/**,**/bower_components/**`.

## <a name="rule-profile"></a>Configuring Rules Profile

SonarJS provides 2 rule profiles out of the box: `Sonar way` (default) and `Sonar way Recommended`.

#### `Sonar way` Profile
`Sonar way` profile is activated by default. It defines a trimmed list of high-value/low-noise rules useful in almost any JS development context. You can check out the list of rules belonging to `Sonar way` on [SonarCloud](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/default/rules#qprofile=js-sonar-way-56838|activation=true).

#### `Sonar way Recommended` Profile
`Sonar way Recommended` contains all rules from `Sonar way` (bugs and pitfall detection), plus more rules that mandate high code readability and long-term project evolution. You can check out the list of rules belonging to `Sonar way Recommended` on [SonarCloud](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/default/rules#qprofile=js-sonar-way-recommended-64843|activation=true).

#### Above Predefined Rule Profiles
By using SonarQube/SonarCloud UI you can create your own rule profiles and activate even more rules which are valuable in your development context. We recommend you to look at the following rules, which are highly valuable but whose activation depends on your environment, coding principles or requires some configuration.
* "Non-existent properties should not be read" [S3759](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/default/rules#rule_key=javascript%3AS3759) (should be activated if you don't use monkey patching)
* "Non-existent variables should not be referenced" [S3827](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/default/rules#rule_key=javascript%3AS3827) (requires configuration)
* "Objects should not be created to be dropped immediately without being used" [ConstructorFunctionsForSideEffects](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/default/rules#rule_key=javascript%3AConstructorFunctionsForSideEffects) (activate, if you agree that constructors should not have side effects)
* "Variables should be declared with "let" or "const"" [S3504](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/default/rules#rule_key=javascript%3AS3504). Activate, if you use ES2015. Find more rules with tag "es2015".
* "Variables should be defined in the blocks where they are used" [S2392](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/default/rules#rule_key=javascript%3AS2392) (forces you to declare variables in the most narrow scope)
* "Variables should not be shadowed" [VariableShadowing](https://sonarcloud.io/organizations/default/rules#rule_key=javascript%3AVariableShadowing) (forces you to not shadow variables declared in outer scope)

## <a name="faq"></a>FAQ

Have a question and can't find it here, [create an issue](https://github.com/SonarSource/SonarJS/issues/new)!

#### Q: How to import results of tests execution into SonarQube/SonarCloud?
A: Import of unit tests is not provided by SonarJS, and it's provided by SonarQube/SonarCloud itself (since v6.2). Here is [documentation](https://docs.sonarqube.org/display/SONAR/Generic+Test+Data) about it.

#### Q: How to disable coverage in my SonarQube/SonarCloud?
A: You may disable coverage metrics for some source files by setting [`sonar.coverage.exclusions`](https://docs.sonarqube.org/display/SONAR/Narrowing+the+Focus#NarrowingtheFocus-IgnoreCodeCoverage).

#### Q: How to write custom rules?
A: Here is some [documentation](/docs/CUSTOM_RULES.md) on how to write custom rules.
